Six.

I've been praying to the Sun lately, and I think it must be working.

I have now spent half a year doing my best to incentivize a community of talented futurists into being.
I have been Webmaster, Mentor, Data Warden, Entrepeneurial Hermit, and Foe. I have descended into tremendous debt and premature senility. I have forsaken as many of my bitter old quips for newfound knowledge as has been feasible and it looks like I'll only be getting softer. I have begun many friendships, and strengthened plenty of existing ones.

In just a few weeks, my perception of this project and my role in it has gone from acting as a howling, irrelevant old creature to something and someone with a tangible agenda. Loose ends have been rectified, the site is looking better than ever, our Discord is active daily, and our pool of contribution continues to grow exponentially.

Some of the growth is measurable - we're rapidly closing in on 200 total posts. Most is less tangible.

I'd like to mention a few especially-substantial individuals who've graced us with their effort this month.

Cil, Chief Technical Officer
Emily Waters, Production Editor
Chris and Ian, our new *Futureland* cohosts.
Wabi, Music Editor
The cinema hunks and babes behind *The Movie Closet*

**Editorially**
*Extratone* is far from a news service, so we are spared most of the burdens of political publishing. The outcome of the United States' Presidential Election, though, is of unusual importance in our industry. This week, it has been suggested that "fake news" distributed by Facebook could've had a significant enough impact on voter sentiments to be worth "investigation."

Here's a kicker: were *we* aggregated by Facebook in addition to our page, we would've undoubtedly been subject to any and all scrutiny levied by individuals and/or institutions who maintain "truth" as an absolute - or even just tangible - concept.

There is something that needs to be said on behalf of those of us who plan to stick around for awhile: **we no longer have the time to redundantly make our intent explicitly known.** In many cases, we even find it patronizing. I have all but resigned from writing "dishonestly," but a good portion of our prospective content argues ingenuinely, though we don't use Twitter as a singular source, at least.(https://apple.news/AnTmkShZ1R9-fw0B7piSwHQA)

Clearly, a distinction must be made - one more time - between *news* and *entertainment*.

#Extratone