# Automation
From: David Krusemark <asphaltapostle@icloud.com>
To: ihadtopee@gmail.com
Date: Mar 7, 2021
Subject: Automation

※ David Blue ※ (‪@NeoYokel‬)
3/7/21, 14:19
something Siri Shortcuts have taught me about myself recently is that I fundamentally hate automation and certainly don’t “believe” in it, generally, as a set of technologies that have a realistic chance of making our lives better anytime soon.
※ David Blue ※ (‪@NeoYokel‬)
3/7/21, 14:25
and yet, the *promise* of automation has played a significant role in my technological life. I remember freaking the fuck out about IFTTT when it first came out in 2011 - no doubt an influential predecessor as the service that gave end users the abstracts “recipes” and “tasks.”
※ David Blue ※ (‪@NeoYokel‬)
3/7/21, 14:28
an idea of mine which I still consider to be genius: it seemed like a revelation when it occured to me to take the “secret” email-to-post address of the Drywall Tumblr and sign it up for a bunch of couponing newsletters. drywallmusic.tumblr.com
※ David Blue ※ (‪@NeoYokel‬)
3/7/21, 14:31
at the time, it felt rebellious and smart. looking back on it in 2021, it looks awfully familiar. I guess a whole lot of bot enthusiasts were thinking similarly. definitely art, though.
※ David Blue ※ (‪@NeoYokel‬)
3/7/21, 14:33
I am SUCH a product of the internet. maybe I should try to write my own Trick Mirror like Jia Tolentino, but about Drywall lol.


David Blue
Editor-in-Chief,
Extratone

[OPEN IN SPARK](readdle-spark://bl=QTppaGFkdG9wZWVAZ21haWwuY29tO0lEOjI2OUM0NjYxLTYyRUEtNDI4Qy1CNUM1%0D%0ALUVFMEQzRTg2MUFBMUBpY2xvdWQuY29tO2dJRDoxNjkzNjA2OTI1NTc3MDczMTU0%0D%0AOzIzOTI5MDAxMg%3D%3D)

#i #legacy 
https://reddit.com/r/shortcuts/comments/m4rob3/using_shortcuts_to_protect_from_outside_intrusion/
[It’s not just you, sharing shortcuts via iCloud is completely broken right now - 9to5Mac](https://9to5mac.com/2021/03/24/icloud-shortcut-sharing-broken/)