Since it was announced yesterday that Vine will be discontinuing support for its mobile app (i.e. closing its doors) in the coming months, all of my Twitter lists have been filled with... Vines. Corresponding to their respective niches, of course. And - unlike Gawker's late passing - I am directly effected by the news.

Despite the fact that they're directly financially and technologically intertwined, there are still some odd (and now, unsettling) parallels between Twitter and Vine. Both were fairly mainstream for a time, and both have had to resign to the reality in recent years of a senior-majority membership. While the number of active users has actually remained constant, neither have grown. But the presence of the most iconic characters - the "influencers," if you will - hasn't waned. Some of the Viners I followed in 2013 continue to post regularly; nearly all have changed immensely. I've watched them gain real fame (most localized, a few global,) grow artistically, and form a close-nit community which I am almost *too* familiar with as a decidedly external observer.

This past Spring, I found Emma Greer's death difficult to process, despite having no conventional right to such grief. She was very young, of course - a few years younger than me, with a good portion of the community - but lots of young strangers die. There is something peculiarly intimate about platforms like Vine that few of us have had time to sufficiently confront. As the "stars" attend conventions and network in person, you follow their networks. With instant access to their whim of expression, you're allowed a privilege only enjoyed before by close friends - for the history of human companionship. And you're particularly-susceptible to forming attachments because they're funny! It seems petty in the moment, of course, but such one-sided intimacy is a very potent tease to our psychology.

According to Vine's announcement, Emma Greer's posts will be immortalized along with all existing content and accessible via browser for an indefinite amount of time.

#Extratone